-----
# LLMNR / NBT-NS
-----
- LLMNR (Link Local Multicast Name Resolution) & NBT-NS (NetBIOS Name Service) are the two alternative protocols that hosts use when they fail to resolve DNS. 
- Both allows one host to resolve DNS issues for other hosts within the same local network.
- Both use UDP. LLMNR uses port 5355 while NBT-NS uses port 137
- Flow of attack
	1. Host try to connect to a printer server \\\\print01
	2. There is a typo \\\\printer01 -> DNS fails to resolve
	3. The host will use LLMNR to broadcast to other hosts in the same network, trying to resolve the DNS
	4. Attacker captures the request (by listening to the traffic using Responder, Inveigh or Metasploit), claims to know where \\\\ printer01 is located
	5. The host will send request with authentication data (username and NTLMv2 hashes)
	6. Attackers can crack the hashes or use them to perform relay attacks.

### Responder
- We can use `Responder` on Linux to capture request
```bash
sudo responder -I ens224
```

- Logs and results of Responders run will be stored in ***/user/share/responder/logs***
- From here we can use Hashcat -m 5600 to crack the hashes -> obtain credentials

## Inveigh
- [Inveigh](https://github.com/Kevin-Robertson/Inveigh) Windows PWNBOX, similar to Responder
```bash
Import-Module .\Inveigh.ps1
(Get-Command Invoke-Inveigh).Parameters
```

- Start Inveigh with LLMNR and NBNS spoofing, and output to the console and write to file
```bash
Invoke-Inveigh Y -NBNS Y -ConsoleOutput Y -FileOuptut Y 
```

- The PowerShell version is no longer updated. We must compile the C# version to use.
```PowerShell
./Inveigh.exe

HELP to see options for Inveigh
# view unique hashes
GET NTLMV2UNIQUE
# Get usernames
GET NTLMV2USERNAMES
```

-----
# Mitigation
-----
- Mitre ATT&CK lists this technique as [ID: T1557.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1557/001), `Adversary-in-the-Middle: LLMNR/NBT-NS Poisoning and SMB Relay`.
- We can disable LLMNR and NBT-NS
	- We can disable LLMNR in Group Policy by going to Computer Configuration --> Administrative Templates --> Network --> DNS Client and enabling "Turn OFF Multicast Name Resolution."
	- NBT-NS cannot be disabled via Group Policy but must be disabled locally on each host. We can do this by opening `Network and Sharing Center` under `Control Panel`, clicking on `Change adapter settings`, right-clicking on the adapter to view its properties, selecting `Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4)`, and clicking the `Properties` button, then clicking on `Advanced` and selecting the `WINS` tab and finally selecting `Disable NetBIOS over TCP/IP`.

- Use PowerShell script to disable NBT-NS  under Computer Configuration --> Windows Settings --> Script (Startup/Shutdown) --> Startup with something like the following:
```powershell
$regkey = "HKLM:SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\services\NetBT\Parameters\Interfaces"
Get-ChildItem $regkey |foreach { Set-ItemProperty -Path "$regkey\$($_.pschildname)" -Name NetbiosOptions -Value 2 -Verbose}
```

- To push this out to all hosts in a domain, we could create a GPO using `Group Policy Management` on the Domain Controller and host the script on the SYSVOL share in the scripts folder and then call it via its UNC path such as:

`\\inlanefreight.local\SYSVOL\INLANEFREIGHT.LOCAL\scripts`

- Once the GPO is applied to specific OUs and those hosts are restarted, the script will run at the next reboot and disable NBT-NS, provided that the script still exists on the SYSVOL share and is accessible by the host over the network.

-----
# DETECTION
-----
- One way is to use the attack against the attackers by injecting LLMNR and NBT-NS requests for non-existent hosts across different subnets and alerting if any of the responses receive answers which would be indicative of an attacker spoofing name resolution responses. [View this blog post](https://www.praetorian.com/blog/a-simple-and-effective-way-to-detect-broadcast-name-resolution-poisoning-bnrp/)
- Host can be monitored on UDP 5355 and 137, events IDs 4697 and 7045.
- Monitor Registry key `HKLM\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\DNSClient` for changes to the `EnableMulticast` DWORD value. A value of `0` would mean that LLMNR is disabled.