# Broken Authentication Scripts
- This folder contains a number of mini scripts that can be utilized to test against Broken Authentication vulnerability in web applications. 
	- [check_bruteforce_timeout.py](./check_bruteforce_timeout.py) - This script checks if an applications is timed out if we try to bruteforce username & passwords. If the applications does time out, the application will provide the number of allowed attempts before it times out. The script also generates a `response.html` file, which will provide the error message, which might provide some useful information.
	- [username_timing.py](./username_timing.py) - Some web application first connects to the database and then executes a query to retrieve an entire row where the username matches the requested one. If there are no results, the function ends with a generic message. If the user exists, the provided password is hashed and compared. If the hashing algorithm used is strong enough, timing differences between the two branches will be noticeable. This script will check if there's any time difference for any particular username.
	- [reset_token_time.py](./reset_token_time.py) - When a token is created for "htbuser", the same algorithm is used to generate for "htbadmin" within the interval of +-1 second. The algorithm used to generate both tokens is the same as the one shown when talking about the [Apache OpenMeeting](https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2016-0783/) bug.
	- [predictable_questions.py](./predictable_questions.py) - This scipt is used to bruteforce answers to some commin Security questions when trying to reset passwords. 	
